docs/downloads.md, before:

# Downloads

## Dataset (train and validation sets)
The train and validation sets for tasks 1, 2 and 3 is available as an archive.

You can currently download them here:

- [Mirror 1](https://www.lrde.epita.fr/~jchazalo/SHARE/icdar21-mapseg-v1.0.0-trainval-20201114a.zip)

MD5 checksums:
```txt
c54c35d132701bc5e6ddd5c70fc854b3  icdar21-mapseg-v1.0.0-trainval-20201114a.zip
```

## Dataset (test sets)
The test sets (inputs only) will be released at the beginning of the test phase for each task:

- task 1: 2021-04-05
- tasks 2 and 3: 2021-04-12

*Please [subscribe to updates](contact.md#subscribe-to-updates) to be notified when they are available.*

## Evaluation tools
**Evaluation tools are available.**  You can download them using  
<center>
`pip install -U icdar21-mapseg-eval`
</center>

They are [open-source Python programs](https://github.com/icdar21-mapseg/icdar21-mapseg-eval).

Please check the [documentation for the evaluation tools](https://github.com/icdar21-mapseg/icdar21-mapseg-eval/blob/main/README.md) for more details about how to install them.

Please check the documentation of each task for further details about how to use the evaluation tools for each task. 

## Competition results
Competition results computed by participants will be made available publicly on this website, so that anyone can recompute the results and derive the final ranking.

*Please [subscribe to updates](contact.md#subscribe-to-updates) to be notified when they are available.*

Commit message:

Add URL to download test data for task 1 (no GT)

docs/downloads.md, after:

# Downloads

## Dataset (train and validation sets)
The train and validation sets for tasks 1, 2 and 3 is available as an archive.

You can currently download them here:

- [Mirror 1](https://www.lrde.epita.fr/~jchazalo/SHARE/icdar21-mapseg-v1.0.0-trainval-20201114a.zip)

MD5 checksums:
```txt
c54c35d132701bc5e6ddd5c70fc854b3  icdar21-mapseg-v1.0.0-trainval-20201114a.zip
```

## Dataset (test sets)
The test sets (inputs only) will be released at the beginning of the test phase for each task:

- task 1: 2021-04-05
- tasks 2 and 3: 2021-04-12

### Test inputs for Task 1
- [Mirror 1](https://www.lrde.epita.fr/~jchazalo/SHARE/icdar21-mapseg_v1.0.0-test_t1_nogt-20210403a.zip)

MD5 checksums:
```txt
334f5c676e3e2f052216623b3e40487d  icdar21-mapseg_v1.0.0-test_t1_nogt-20210403a.zip
```


**Participants are automatically notified when they are available.**  
*Please [subscribe to updates](contact.md#subscribe-to-updates) to be notified when they are available.*

## Evaluation tools
**Evaluation tools are available.**  You can download them using  
<center>
`pip install -U icdar21-mapseg-eval`
</center>

They are [open-source Python programs](https://github.com/icdar21-mapseg/icdar21-mapseg-eval).

Please check the [documentation for the evaluation tools](https://github.com/icdar21-mapseg/icdar21-mapseg-eval/blob/main/README.md) for more details about how to install them.

Please check the documentation of each task for further details about how to use the evaluation tools for each task. 

## Competition results
Competition results computed by participants will be made available publicly on this website, so that anyone can recompute the results and derive the final ranking.

*Please [subscribe to updates](contact.md#subscribe-to-updates) to be notified when they are available.*
